[open logo]
Hello everyone, this is meteorologist Dave
Snider at the Anchorage Alaska National Weather
Service Forecast Office TV Desk.
[wrn]
This is a 6-10 day outlook for Alaska based
on climate connections and changes we're seeing
for the first week of November.
[recap]
Alaska has been working through an unusual
weather period brought to us by sharp change
in the jet stream pattern like what you see
here from 3 weeks ago.
The period was full of warm, wet weather making
it feel more like mid-September rather than
mid-October.
[outlook jet]
We're looking forward now to something a bit
more "normal".
The jet stream pattern for the first week
of November should look more like this, a
flatter storm track flow that keeps weather
moving along.
[precip anomaly]
For expected precipitation... amounts should
generally be typical or at least not excessive
for the season.
We see a decreased chance of big Bering Sea
storms during this period, but it's a progressive
weather pattern with more day-to-day variability
than previous weeks.
And we're still watching an active typhoon
season in the West Pacific.
[temp anomaly]
Temperatures should be closer to what you'd
consider normal in your area for early November.
Keep in mind...
most areas will therefore be much colder than
the weather of recent weeks... in other words
...Winter's chill should be setting in if
it hasn't yet.
The one place where temps may be a bit off
the beaten path would be along the Chuckchi
Sea Coast, where the lack of sea ice is playing
a role in the sensible weather right now.
[impacts]
With this storm track and general trends,
we expect that the winter snow pack over much
of mainland Alaska will begin to be established.
Exceptions would be for Southcentral coast
and lower terrain of Southeast that don't
have good snow chances in the coming days.
This is good news for subsistence activities
and the Alaska way of life in Winter.
[sst?]
Freeze up in the interior should be working
toward completion... and be well on the way
for Southcentral and Southwest Alaska.
With the length of daylight decreasing rapidly...
sea surface temperatures are dropping rapidly.
And sea ice formation is progressing... including
in the protected waters south of the Bering
Strait.
[close office shots]
Remember, this is a broad look at a developing
weather pattern 6 to 10 days in advance.
This information is not meant to be specific...
you should continue to monitor information
from the National Weather Service offices
in Anchorage, Fairbanks and Juneau in the
coming days for watches, warnings and advisories.
You can do that by going to weather.gov, using
your NOAA weather radio... or tuning into
the Alaska Weather show or your favorite local
tv and radio stations.
[logo / close]
Thanks for sharing this message with your
Alaska friends and letting us know about the
impacts you're seeing in your community.
This is NWS Meteorologist Dave Snider... thanks
for watching.